Heart Disease Prediction ML Model

Overview:
First the ML model in build & trained in python then the model is converted into json form i.e. tensorflowjs model that can be integrated into the nodejs Webiste

The Python Libraries used are pandas, sklearn, tensorflow and tensorflowjs

In the python Folder their are the python files used.
        Nodejs folder the model and nodejs files
        Model Folder the final trained model is present and an index.js file for example.

The Main 2files you need to integrate the model into your node project are 'model.json' and 'group1-shard1of1.bin' that are present in 'Model Folder'

Steps used in Developing the python model:
 1. The first initial step for developing this model is to select a dataset, we used the "UCI Heart Disease dataset" having 14 columns and over 300 samples. (heart.csv file)

 2. Select an ML Algorithm using train_test_split_method in this method we first split the dataset into 2 subsets X and y and then we pick multiple ML Algorithms, train and test them to check and compare the accuracy of these algorithms

    The ML Algorithms we used: during this step were:
      NAME                          ACCURACY
    a. KNeighborsClassifier          85.2%
    b. logistic Regrestion           90.1%
    c. SVM                           86.8%
    d. Decision Tree Classifier      80.3%
    e. Random Forest Classifier      86.8%
    f. GradientBoosting Classifier   85.2%

    the accuracy score was calculated for every algo we used, accuracy score is calculated by comparing the test set and the predict set that was generated after the training set ( after training the algo using train set, a prediction is done on the test set this predict outcome is stored as predict set and this predict set and the inital test set are compared together for the accuracy score )

    Once the Most accurate ML algo is Selected in our case it is logistic Regrestion with 90.1% accuracy score.

 3. Now, The Model is train with the Algo logistic Regrestion, and trained with the complete dataset without dividinig the dataset into the subsets.

between the 1st and 2nd step of developing the model, one more step is done in between, i.e. this step is done after the selection of the dataset, 
        - Noramlisation of Dataset
        - Checking for null Values in data set
        - Checking for Duplicate Values in the dataset
        - Droping the the Dupicate Values , removing duplicacy 

 4. Now, from the final trained ML model prediction is done by passing the dataframe(set of values used in the training dataset) and it retuns a boolean value 0 or 1, 0 means No Heart Disease, 1 means have heart Disease.

Now the complete model is train and ready to be used for prediction

After this, the Model is converted into tensorflowjs model to be integrated into nodejs Website

the conversion is done using tensorflow and tensflowjs python modules.

after the conversion process- a main 'model.json' file and some bin files are generated once the conversion process is completed.

Integrating the Model into Nodejs - 

To integrate the ML Model into nodejs

    - install tensorflowjs node package into the node project
        npm install @tensorflow/tfjs

    - import into the filr.js
    const tf = require('@tensorflow/tfjs');

The values that the ML Model take input as are
age
sex
cp
trestbps
chol
fbs
restecg
thalach
exang
oldpeak
slope
ca
thal
(give a numeric value)